There is a day.

About ten years ago when I asked a

friend to hold a baby dinosaur
robot upside down.

It was a toy called plea.

All It's a super courts are

showing off to my friend and I
said to hold it, but he'll see

what debts.

We were watching the theatrics of

this robe that struggle and cry
out and and after a few The first.

After my little and I said o.k.

That's enough.

Now, let's put him back down and
pepper, about to make it.

Stop crying and I was kind of a
weird experience for me one thing,

wasn't the most maternal person at
the time.

Although, since then I've become a
mother and nine months ago.

And that is a score when hold them
up to now, but my response to this

robot was also interesting because
I knew exactly how this machine

work it.

And yet.

I still felt compelled to be kind
to it.

And that observation sparked that
curiosity that I spent the decade

pursuing it.

Why did they comfort this robe.

One of the things I discovered was
my treatment of this machine was

more than just an awkward moment
in my living room that in a world

were increasingly integrating
robots into our lives and things

like that might actually have
consequences because the first

thing that I discovered is that.

It's not just me in two thousand

seven.

The Washington Post reported that

the United States military was
testing this robot diffused

landmines.

We workers were shaped like a

stick insect would walk around a
minefield on its legs and every

time he stepped on a mine.

One of the legs would blow up

would continue on the other legs
to block your minds in the colonel

was in charge of this testing
exercise for calling it off

because he says it's too inhumane
to watch this damage robot drag

itself along What would cause a
hardened military officer and

someone like myself to have this
response to row.

But what.

Of course for prime for science

fiction, pop culture really want
to personify these things, but it

goes a little bit deeper than that
it turns out that we are

biologically hard wired to project
intent and life onto any movement

in a physical space.

It seems I promised us people

treat all sort of robots like
their life.

These bomb disposal units get
names.

They get medals of honour had
funeral for them with gun salutes.

Research shows that we do this.

Even with very simple household

robots like the room.

A vacuum cleaner.

Just a desk that runs around the
floor and clean it just the fact

that it's moving around on his own
will cause people to name the

marimba and feel bad for the room.

But when he gets stuck under the

couch.

We can design about specifically

to invoke this response using eyes
and faces were movement.

People are magically
subconsciously associate with

state of mind.

There's an entire body of research

called Human robot interaction
that really shows how all this

works so.

For example.

Researchers at Stamford University
found out that makes people really

uncomfortable and asked them to
touch her about his private parts

from this from any other studies.

We know.

We know that people respond to the
cues given to them by the lifelike

machines.

Even if they know that they're not

real.

We're heading towards a world

where robots are everywhere about
the technology is moving out from

behind factory was entering
workplaces households and as these

machines.

They can sense and make a ton of

my decisions and learn enter into
the shared spaces.

I think that maybe the best
analogy.

We have for this is our
relationship with animals.

Thousands of years ago, we started
to domesticate animals and we

train them for work and weaponry
and companionship.

Throughout history.

We've treated.

Some animals like tools are the
products and other animals.

We treated with kindness and given
a place in society as our

companions.

I think it's possible.

We might start to integrate
Robartes, but similar weights

animals are alive.

Robert and that.

And I can tell you from working.

What about the sister were pretty

far away from developing robots.

They can feel anything there, but

we feel for And that matters
because if we're trying to

integrate robots into the shared
spaces need to understand that

people treat them differently than
other devices that in some cases.

For example, the case of a soldier
who becomes emotionally attached

to the robot.

They work.

Well, if that can be anything from
inefficient to dangerous.

But in other cases.

It can actually be used for the

faster this emotional connection
to, but we're really seeing some

great use cases.

For example, robots working with

autistic children to engage them
in ways that we haven't seen

previously robot's working with
teachers to engage kids and

learning with new and it's not
just for kids early studies show

that we can help doctors and
patients and health care settings

and this is the pirate b. b. c.

But it's used in nursing homes

with dementia patients has been
around for a while I remember

years ago.

Being a party and telling someone

about this throwback and her
response was I can't believe we're

giving people robots instead of
human care.

is a really common response and I
think it's absolutely correct

because that would be terrible.

And in this case.

It's not with this robot replace
it with this robot replaces his

animal therapy in context which he
was real animals.

We can use robots because people
consistently treat them like more.

More like an animal and have it
acknowledging this emotional

connection.

Robert, can also help us

anticipate challenges as these
devices.

Move into more intimate areas of
people's lives and for example is

it.

o.k.

If your child's teddy bear robot
records private conversations.

Is it.

o.k.

If your sex robot has compelling
in our purchasers because rope.

That's plus capitalism equals
questions around consumer

protection and privacy and those
aren't the only reason, said her

behaviour around these machines
could, madam.

A few years after that first
initial experience.

I had with this baby dinosaur
robot do workshop with her friend

Hannah Scott.

Scott, then we took five of these

baby dinosaur about we give them.

The five teams of people.

We had the name them and play with
them and them for about an hour.

Then we unveiled a him or a
hatchet and we told them to

torture and kill the row and then
this turned out to be a little

more dramatic than we expected it
to be because none of the

participants wouldn't even so much
as straight.

A robot.

So we had to improvise.

End at some point.

He said o.k.

You can save your team's robot.

If you destroy another team throw.

I And anyone that didn't work.

They couldn't do it.

So finally said, We're gonna
destroy all the robots are someone

takes a hatchet to one of them.

This guy stood up and he took the

hatchet and the whole room,
Winston.

See brother had to down on the
robot's neck and there was this

half joking.

Is there reason to.

For example, prevent the child
from kicking about Doc That just

out of respect for property
because the child may be more

likely to take a real dark and
again.

It's not just kids and this is the
violent video games question, but

it's a completely new level
because of this visceral

physicality that we respond more
intensely.

Two images on a screen, we behave
violently towards Robarts

specifically robots that are
designed to mimic life is is that

training cruelty muscles.

The answer to this question has

the potential impact human
behaviour has the potential impact

social norms.

It has the potential to inspire

rules around.

What we can and can't do certain

Robarts animal cruelty, because
even if robots can't fuel our

behaviour towards a matter for us
and regardless of whether we end

up changing ovals robots might be
able to help us come to a new

understanding of ourselves.

Most of what learned over the past

ten years have not been about
technology.

A It's been about human psychology
and empathy and how we relate to

others.

And because when a child is kind

to her room.

But when a soldier tries to save a

robot on the battlefield.

When a group of people refuses to

harm her about a baby dinosaur.

Those robots aren't just motors in

years and a groom's.